---
title: Latest Deep Learning Papers
date: 2024-08-29 09:00:01 +0800
featured-img: DL-logo
categories: [Deep_Learning]
tags: [Deep_Learning]
mathjax: Yes
---

<h1>Your arXiv Feed (4 Articles)</h1>
<h2>Estimating ECG Intervals from Lead-I Alone: External Validation of Supervised Models</h2>
<h3>Ridwan Alam, Collin Stultz</h3>
<p>arXiv:2408.15272v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: The diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of a number of cardiovascular disorders rely on ECG interval measurements, including the PR, QRS, and QT intervals. These quantities are measured from the 12-lead ECG, either manually or using automated algorithms, which are readily available in clinical settings. A number of wearable devices, however, can acquire the lead-I ECG in an outpatient setting, thereby raising the potential for out-of-hospital monitoring for disorders that involve clinically significant changes in ECG intervals. In this work, we therefore developed a series of deep learning models for estimating the PR, QRS, and QT intervals using lead-I ECG. From a corpus of 4.2 million ECGs from patients at the Massachusetts General Hospital, we train and validate each of the models. At internal holdout validation, we achieve mean absolute errors (MAE) of 6.3 ms for QRS durations and 11.9 ms for QT intervals, and an MAE of 9.2 ms for estimating PR intervals. Moreover, as a well-defined P-wave does not always exist in ECG tracings - for example, when there is atrial fibrillation - we trained a model that can identify when there is a P-wave, and consequently, a measurable PR interval. We validate our models on three large external healthcare datasets without any finetuning or retraining - 3.2 million ECG from the Brigham and Womens Hospital, 668 thousand from MIMIC-IV, and 20 thousand from PTB-XL - and achieve similar performance. Also, our models significantly outperform two publicly available baseline algorithms. This work demonstrates that ECG intervals can be tracked from only lead-I ECG using deep learning, and highlights the potential for out-of-hospital applications.</p>
<a href="oai:arXiv.org:2408.15272v1" target="_blank">arXiv:oai:arXiv.org:2408.15272v1</a> [<a href="oai:arXiv.org:2408.15272v1" target="_blank">pdf</a>]

<h2>Auxiliary Input in Training: Incorporating Catheter Features into Deep Learning Models for ECG-Free Dynamic Coronary Roadmapping</h2>
<h3>Yikang Liu, Lin Zhao, Eric Z. Chen, Xiao Chen, Terrence Chen, Shanhui Sun</h3>
<p>arXiv:2408.15947v1 Announce Type: cross 
Abstract: Dynamic coronary roadmapping is a technology that overlays the vessel maps (the "roadmap") extracted from an offline image sequence of X-ray angiography onto a live stream of X-ray fluoroscopy in real-time. It aims to offer navigational guidance for interventional surgeries without the need for repeated contrast agent injections, thereby reducing the risks associated with radiation exposure and kidney failure. The precision of the roadmaps is contingent upon the accurate alignment of angiographic and fluoroscopic images based on their cardiac phases, as well as precise catheter tip tracking. The former ensures the selection of a roadmap that closely matches the vessel shape in the current frame, while the latter uses catheter tips as reference points to adjust for translational motion between the roadmap and the present vessel tree. Training deep learning models for both tasks is challenging and underexplored. However, incorporating catheter features into the models could offer substantial benefits, given humans heavily rely on catheters to complete the tasks. To this end, we introduce a simple but effective method, auxiliary input in training (AIT), and demonstrate that it enhances model performance across both tasks, outperforming baseline methods in knowledge incorporation and transfer learning.</p>
<a href="oai:arXiv.org:2408.15947v1" target="_blank">arXiv:oai:arXiv.org:2408.15947v1</a> [<a href="oai:arXiv.org:2408.15947v1" target="_blank">pdf</a>]

<h2>IICPilot: An Intelligent Integrated Circuit Backend Design Framework Using Open EDA</h2>
<h3>Zesong Jiang, Qing Zhang, Cheng Liu, Long Cheng, Huawei Li, Xiaowei Li</h3>
<p>arXiv:2407.12576v2 Announce Type: replace 
Abstract: Open-source EDA tools are rapidly advancing, fostering collaboration, innovation, and knowledge sharing within the EDA community. However, the growing complexity of these tools, characterized by numerous design parameters and heuristics, poses a significant barrier to their widespread adoption. This complexity is particularly pronounced in integrated circuit (IC) backend designs, which place substantial demands on engineers' expertise in EDA tools. To tackle this challenge, we introduce IICPilot, an intelligent IC backend design system based on LLM technology. IICPilot automates various backend design procedures, including script generation, EDA tool invocation, design space exploration of EDA parameters, container-based computing resource allocation, and exception management. By automating these tasks, IICPilot significantly lowers the barrier to entry for open-source EDA tools. Specifically, IICPilot utilizes LangChain's multi-agent framework to efficiently handle distinct design tasks, enabling flexible enhancements independently. Moreover, IICPilot separates the backend design workflow from specific open-source EDA tools through a unified EDA calling interface. This approach allows seamless integration with different open-source EDA tools like OpenROAD and iEDA, streamlining the backend design and optimization across the EDA tools.</p>
<a href="oai:arXiv.org:2407.12576v2" target="_blank">arXiv:oai:arXiv.org:2407.12576v2</a> [<a href="oai:arXiv.org:2407.12576v2" target="_blank">pdf</a>]

<h2>Myocardial Infarction Detection from ECG: A Gramian Angular Field-based 2D-CNN Approach</h2>
<h3>Asim Yousuf, Rehan Hafiz, Saqib Riaz, Muhammad Farooq, Kashif Riaz, Muhammad Mahboob Ur Rahman</h3>
<p>arXiv:2302.13011v2 Announce Type: replace-cross 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel method for inferior myocardial infarction (MI) detection using lead II of electrocardiogram (ECG). We evaluate our proposed method on a public dataset, namely, Physikalisch Technische Bundesanstalt (PTB) ECG dataset from Physionet. Under our proposed method, we first clean the noisy ECG signals using db4 wavelet, followed by an R-peak detection algorithm to segment the ECG signals into beats. We then translate the ECG timeseries dataset to an equivalent dataset of gray-scale images using Gramian Angular Summation Field (GASF) and Gramian Angular Difference Field (GADF) operations. Subsequently, the gray-scale images are fed into a custom two-dimensional convolutional neural network (2D-CNN) which efficiently differentiates between a healthy subject and a subject with MI. Our proposed approach achieves an average classification accuracy of 99.68%, 99.80%, 99.82%, and 99.84% under GASF dataset with noise and baseline wander, GADF dataset with noise and baseline wander, GASF dataset with noise and baseline wander removed, and GADF dataset with noise and baseline wander removed, respectively. Most importantly, this work opens the floor for innovation in wearable devices to measure lead II ECG (e.g., by a smart watch worn on right wrist, along with a smart patch on left leg), in order to do accurate, real-time and early detection of inferior wall MI.</p>
<a href="oai:arXiv.org:2302.13011v2" target="_blank">arXiv:oai:arXiv.org:2302.13011v2</a> [<a href="oai:arXiv.org:2302.13011v2" target="_blank">pdf</a>]

